.TH sffiglist 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sffiglist \- Compare Vplot files in Fig and Lock directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sffiglist figdir= lockdir= list= show= rsftest=n copy=n
.SH COMMENTS
Parameter figdir is path to Fig directory, default is ./Fig.
Parameter lockdir is path to Lock directory:
If figdir is in $RSFSRC/book/[book]/[chapter]/[section],
then default lockdir is $RSFFIGS/[book]/[chapter]/[section].
If figdir is not in $RSFSRC/book/[book]/[chapter]/[section],
then default lockdir is $RSFALTFIGS/[book]/[chapter]/[section].

Parameter list controls files to list, default is all.
Parameter show controls files to flip with sfpen, default is none.

list|show = none    No files, print only summary.
list|show = diff    Files that are different, determined by sfvplotdiff.
list|show = miss    Files missing from figdir or lockdir, and different files.
list|show = all     All files.

File list codes:

space   indicates files that are the same.
-     indicates file in lockdir that is missing from figdir.
+     indicates extra file in figdir that is missing from lockdir.
number  is return code from sfvplotdiff indicating different files.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I bool   
.B copy
.B =n
.R  [y/n]	copy different figs from figdir to lockdir?
.TP
.I string 
.B figdir
.B =
.R  	fig directory, default = ./Fig
.TP
.I string 
.B list
.B =
.R  	how much to list [none,diff,miss,all], default = all
.TP
.I string 
.B lockdir
.B =
.R  	lock directory, default = lock counterpart of figdir
.TP
.I bool   
.B rsftest
.B =n
.R  [y/n]	write .rsftest file?
.TP
.I string 
.B show
.B =
.R  	how much to show [none,diff,miss,all], default = none
.SH SOURCE
.I user/jennings/Mfiglist.py
.SH DOCUMENTATION
.BR http://ahay.org/wiki/Guide_to_madagascar_programs#sffiglist
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
