.TH sfort3dhomodevK 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sfort3dhomodevK \- 3D three-components projection deviation correction operators calculation in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sfort3dhomodevK > Fo1.rsf apvy=Fo2.rsf apvz=Fo3.rsf taper=Fo4.rsf vp0=3000.0 vs0=1500.0 de1=0.05 de2=-0.05 de3=0.15 ep1=0.2 ep2=0.05 ga1=0.1 ga2=0.1 alpha=0. the=0. phi=0. hnx=250 hny=250 hnz=250 dx=10. dy=10. dz=10. itaper=1
.SH COMMENTS
* homogeneous orthorhombic media
Copyright (C) 2012 Tongji University, Shanghai, China 

Authors: Jiubing Cheng and Tengfei Wang 

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I float  
.B alpha
.B =0.
.R  
.TP
.I file   
.B apvy
.B =
.R  	auxiliary output file name
.TP
.I file   
.B apvz
.B =
.R  	auxiliary output file name
.TP
.I float  
.B de1
.B =0.05
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B de2
.B =-0.05
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B de3
.B =0.15
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B dx
.B =10.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B dy
.B =10.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B dz
.B =10.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ep1
.B =0.2
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ep2
.B =0.05
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ga1
.B =0.1
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ga2
.B =0.1
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B hnx
.B =250
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B hny
.B =250
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B hnz
.B =250
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B itaper
.B =1
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B phi
.B =0.
.R  
.TP
.I file   
.B taper
.B =
.R  	auxiliary output file name
.TP
.I float  
.B the
.B =0.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B vp0
.B =3000.0
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B vs0
.B =1500.0
.R  
.SH SOURCE
.I user/chengjb/Mort3dhomodevK.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
