.TH sftahgain 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sftahgain \- Read Trace And Header (tah) from standard input and apply GAIN
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sftahgain < in.rsf > out.rsf xstart= tstart= verbose=1 scale=1.0 tpow=0.0 epow=0.0 agc=0.0
.SH COMMENTS

tah is the abbreviation of Trace And Header.  Madagascar programs 
that begin with sftah are a designed to:
1- read trace and headers from separate rsf files and write them to 
standard output (ie sftahread)
2- filter programs that read and write standard input/output and 
process the tahxstart data (eg sftahnmo, sftahstack)
3- read tah data from standard input and write separate rsf files for 
the trace and headers data (ie sftahwrite)

These programs allow Seismic Unix (su) like processing in Madagascar.  
Some programs have su like names.

Some programs in this suite are sftahread, sftahgethw, ftahhdrmath, 
and sftahwrite.

The sftahgain program is designed to apply various amplitude gain 
functions.  These gain functions include multiply by a constant, 
trace balance, clipping, AGC, t**pow, exp(epow*t) and AGC.  Trace 
and header data (tah) are read from standard input (usually a pipe).
Data is scaled:
out(t) = scale * BAL{CLIP[AGC{[t^tpow * exp(epow * t)}]}
Then trace and header data is written to standard output.

EXAMPLE:

sftahsort input=shots-receivers-23900_headfix.rsf          \
sort="xline:600,601 offset"                             \
| sftahgain agc=.5                                         \
| sftahmakeskey pkey=xline skey=cdpt                       \
| sftahwrite                                               \
verbose=1                                                \
label2=cdpt  o2=1 n2=100 d2=1                            \
label3=xline o3=600 n3=1 d3=1                            \
output=agccmps.rsf                                       \
>/dev/null

sfgrey <agccmps.rsf | sfpen

In this example the shot organized prestack data in the file 
shots-receivers-23900_headfix.rsf are read in xline offset order by 
sftahsort program.  The headers are in the file 
shots-receivers-23900_headfix_hdr.rsf, the headers parameter default.
The headers are merged with the trace amplitudes and the tah data sent 
down the pipe for scaling (agc).

sftahagc applies a .5 second automatic gain control (agc)

The program sftahmakeskey is used to create a secondary key used 
in the following sftahwrite to define the location to wrte the trace 
in the output file. Sftahmakeskey makes a secondary key (skey=cdpt) 
the count the traces starting in the a primary key gather (pkey=xline).
The input traces gathered by xline by sftahsort. Sftahmakeskey sets 
cdpt to 1 when the trace has a new xline.  If the trace has the same 
xline as the previous trace cdpt is incremented

Sftahwrite writes the the trace data to agccmp.rsf and the headers are 
written to the file agccmp_hdr.rsf.  The order of the data in the output 
file is defined by the cdpt and xline trace headers, so the  data order
is (time,cmpt,xline).  Finally, the output volume is displayed using
sfgrey.

Operation order:

out(t) = scale * BAL{CLIP[AGC{[t^tpow * exp(epow * t)}]}	

.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I float  
.B agc
.B =0.0
.R  	Length of agc window in seconds.  0.0 means no agc
.TP
.I float  
.B epow
.B =0.0
.R  	multiply data by exp(epow*t)
.TP
.I float  
.B scale
.B =1.0
.R  	multiply data by this float
.TP
.I float  
.B tpow
.B =0.0
.R  	multiply data by t^tpow
.TP
.I floats 
.B tstart
.B =
.R  	list of times that correspont to xstart and define the offset 
	   dependent start time for the agc scaling  [numtstart]
.TP
.I int    
.B verbose
.B =1
.R  	

       flag to control amount of print
       0 terse, 1 informative, 2 chatty, 3 debug
.TP
.I floats 
.B xstart
.B =
.R  	list of offsets that correspond to tstart and define the offset
           dependent start time for the agc scaling  [numxstart]
.SH USED IN
.TP
.I data/bpstatics94/firstlook
.TP
.I data/bptti2007/firstlook
.TP
.I data/bpvelanal2004/firstlook
.SH SOURCE
.I user/karl/Mtahgain.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
