.TH sftahread 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sftahread \- Read Trace And Header from separate files, combine, write to pipe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sftahread < infile.rsf > out.rsf verbose=1 makeheader=n input= headers=
.SH COMMENTS

tah is the abbreviation of Trace And Header.  Madagascar programs 
that begin with sftah are designed to:
1- read trace and headers from separate rsf files and write them to 
standard output (ie sftahread)
2- filter programs that read and write standard input/output and 
process the tah data (eg sftahnmo, sftahstack)
3- read tah data from standard input and write separate rsf files for 
the trace and headers data (ie sftahwrite)

These programs allow Seismic Unix (su) like processing in Madagascar.  
Some programs have su like names.

Some programs in this suite are sftahread, sftahgethw, sftahhdrmath, 
and sftahwrite.

EXAMPLE:

sftahread \
verbose=1 \
input=npr3_gathers.rsf \
| sftahnmo \
verbose=1  \
tnmo=0,.373,.619,.826,.909,1.017,1.132,1.222,1.716,3.010 \
vnmo=9086,10244,11085,10803,10969,11578,12252,12669,14590,17116 \
| sftahstack key=iline,xline verbose=1 \
| sftahwrite \
verbose=1                           \
label2="xline" o2=1 n2=188 d2=1   \
label3="iline" o3=1 n3=345 d3=1   \
output=mappedstack.rsf \
>/dev/null

sfgrey <mappedstack.rsf | sfpen

In this example the cmp sorted prestack data, npr3_gathers.rsf,  are 
read by sftahread.  The headers are in the file npr3_gathers_hdr.rsf, 
the headers parameter default.  The headers are merged with the trace 
amplitudes and the tah data sent down the pipe for nmo and stack.  The 
sftahwrite writes the trace data to mappedstack.rsf and the headers 
are written to the file mappedstack_hdr.rsf.  The order of the data in
the output file is defined by the iline and xline trace headers, so the 
data order is (time,xline,iline).  Finally, the output volume is
displayed using sfgrey.

.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I string 
.B headers
.B =
.R  	

     Trace header file name.  Default is the input data file
     name, with the final .rsf changed to _hdr.rsf
.TP
.I string 
.B input
.B =
.R  	

     Input file for traces amplitudes.  You can list a file here, has the 
     input file name will be used to compute the name of the header files.

     The input trace amplitudes can also be read from standard input by
     just supplying standard input and omitting this paramater,  This 
     is useful it you wish to do sopme initial processing of the input
     rsf file containing the trace amplitudes.  This is useful if you need 
     to change input axis labels to use the makeheader=yes.
.TP
.I bool   
.B makeheader
.B =n
.R  [y/n]	

     Option to load headers using the input file axis labels.  If axis 
     label2 through label9 match a header key then that coordinate is
     loaded to the traces header.  This can be used to load the source
     coordinate to the sx header location.  This may require changing
     the axis label because Madagascar axis labels are not the same as
     segy trace headers.  for example axis 2 coordiante can be loaded in
     sx trace header by:
        <spike.rsf sfput label2=sx \
           | sftahread headers=spike_hdr.rsf makeheader=y \ 
           | sftahgethw key=sx >/dev/null
.TP
.I int    
.B verbose
.B =1
.R  	

     flag to control amount of print
     0 terse, 1 informative, 2 chatty, 3 debug
.SH USED IN
.TP
.I data/boem-g3d1206-002a/displayin
.TP
.I data/bpvelanal2004/firstlook
.SH SOURCE
.I user/karl/Mtahread.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
