.TH sftahscdecon 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sftahscdecon \- Trace And Header Surface Consistant Decon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sftahscdecon < in.rsf > out.rsf wiener=wien.rsf key= verbose=1 minlag= maxlag= pnoise=0.001
.SH COMMENTS

tah is the abbreviation of Trace And Header.  Madagascar programs 
that begin with sftah are a designed to:
1- read trace and headers from separate rsf files and write them to 
standard output (ie sftahread)
2- filter programs that read and write standard input/output and 
process the tah data (eg sftahnmo, sftahstack)
3- read tah data from standard input and write separate rsf files for 
the trace and headers data (ie sftahwrite)

These programs allow Seismic Unix (su) like processing in Madagascar.  
Some programs have su like names.

Some programs in this suite are sftahread, sftahgethw, ftahhdrmath, 
and sftahwrite.

The sftahsfdecon program applies surface consistant decon.

EXAMPLE:

sftahsort \
input=npr3_field.rsf \
sort="sx,sy" \
| sftahgain  \
tpow=2 \
| sftahmute \
tmute=0.0,3.0 \
xmute=0,18000  \
| sftahscdecon \
key="sx,sy" \
length=140 \
pnoise=.001 \
verbose=0  \
|  sftahwrite output=shotdecon.rsf \
mode=seq \
>/dev/null

sftahsort \
input=shotdecon.rsf \
sort="gx,gy"
| sftahscdecon \
key="gx,gy" \
length=140 \
pmoise=.001 \
verbose=0  \
|  sftahwrite output=s-g-decon.rsf \
mode=seq \
>/dev/null


Traces are in the file npr_field.rsf anf headers in the npr_field_hdr.rsf 
file.  The headers are merged with the trace amplitudes and the tah data 
sent down the pipe for spreading loss correction (sftahgain tpow=2),
a pre decon mute (sftahmute) and shot consistant decon.  Data is written
to the output file shotdecon.rsf and headers to shotdecon_hdr.rsf.  In
the next sequence the data is sorted in to common receiver domain so 
receiver consistent decon can be applied.


.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I string 
.B key
.B =
.R  	

     list of keys to watch to determine traces in a gather that 
     will have a single decon operator applies.  Typically data
     is sorted by gx,gy then sftahscdecon run with key="gx,gy".
     Then a second pass of scdecon is first sorting by sx,sy and 
     running sftahscdecon with key="sx,sy".
   ([numkeys])
.TP
.I float  
.B maxlag
.B =
.R  	last lag of prediction filter (sec)
.TP
.I float  
.B minlag
.B =
.R  	first lag of prediction filter (sec)
.TP
.I float  
.B pnoise
.B =0.001
.R  	relative additive noise level
.TP
.I int    
.B verbose
.B =1
.R  	

     flag to control amount of print
     0 terse, 1 informative, 2 chatty, 3 debug
.TP
.I string 
.B wiener
.B =
.R  	file to output Wiener filter.  never tested!!! (auxiliary output file name)
.SH SOURCE
.I user/karl/Mtahscdecon.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
