.TH sftahwindow 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sftahwindow \- Trace And Header WINDOW
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sftahwindow < in.rsf > out.rsf reject= verbose=0 tmax=(n1_traces-1)*d1+o1 min=INT_MIN max=INT_MAX key=
.SH COMMENTS

tah is the abbreviation of Trace And Header.  Madagascar programs 
that begin with sftah are a designed to:
1- read trace and headers from separate rsf files and write them to 
standard output (ie sftahread)
2- filter programs that read and write standard input/output and 
process the tah data (eg sftahnmo, sftahstack)
3- read tah data from standard input and write separate rsf files for 
the trace and headers data (ie sftahwrite)

These programs allow Seismic Unix (su) like processing in Madagascar.  
Some programs have su like names.

Some programs in this suite are sftahread, sftahgethw, ftahhdrmath, 
and sftahwrite.

The sftahwindow program select a subset of the traces.  Currently it will select
a subset of the time range of each trace.  In the future it needs to be 
upgraded to select traces based on trace headers.  It is modelled on suwind.

EXAMPLE:

sftahread \
verbose=1 \
input=npr3_field.rsf \
| sftahwindow tmax=4.092 \
verbose=0  \
| sftahwrite  \
verbose=1 \
output=npr3_field1.rsf \
mode=seq \
>/dev/null

The headers are in the file npr3_field_hdr.rsf, the headers parameter 
default.  The headers are merged with the trace amplitudes and the tah 
data sent down the pipe for sftahwindow.  The trace is shortened to 
2047 samples to remove the two bad amplitudes observed at the end of 
most of the traces on this file.  The traces are sent to STDOUT to 
sftahwrite, which write the data sequentially to the output file (ie 
the output files is just a bunch of traces.

PARAMETERS
Float tmax= maximum time in the input trace amplitude file.
Maximum time in seconds to limit the output trace 


.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I string 
.B key
.B =
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B max
.B =INT_MAX
.R  
.TP
.I int    
.B min
.B =INT_MIN
.R  
.TP
.I ints   
.B reject
.B =
.R  	 [numreject]
.TP
.I float  
.B tmax
.B =(n1_traces-1)*d1+o1
.R  	maximum time in seconds to limit the output trace
.TP
.I int    
.B verbose
.B =0
.R  	

     flag to control amount of print
     0 terse, 1 informative, 2 chatty, 3 debug
.SH SOURCE
.I user/karl/Mtahwindow.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
