.TH sftahmakesloc 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
sftahmakesloc \- Trace And Header MAKE SLOC KEY.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sftahmakesloc < in.rsf > out.rsf verbose=1 slocxy= slockey=
.SH COMMENTS

tah is the abbreviation of Trace And Header.  Madagascar programs 
that begin with sftah are a designed to:
1- read trace and headers from separate rsf files and write them to 
standard output (ie sftahread)
2- filter programs that read and write standard input/output and 
process the tah data (eg sftahnmo, sftahstack)
3- read tah data from standard input and write separate rsf files for 
the trace and headers data (ie sftahwrite)

These programs allow Seismic Unix (su) like processing in Madagascar.  
Some programs have su like names.

Some programs in this suite are sftahread, sftahgethw, ftahhdrmath, 
and sftahwrite.

The sftahmakeslockey program will make a sloc keywhic is useful for 
surface consistant scaling, decon, and residal statics.  An sloc is a 
surface location, ie a shot or a receiver location.  Programs could 
be written to drive off the group location (gx,gy), but it is better 
to just have an integer group surface location counts the group 
location from 1 to number group locations.  That allows you to make 
shot record displays where the horizontal coordinate the group 
location index (a handy display to look for consistant receiver statics 
on shots).  You specify input surface coodinate, slocxy=gx,gy and output 
header key, slockey=tracf.

EXAMPLE:

sftahread \
verbose=1 \
input=npr3_gathers.rsf \
| sftahmakeslockey slocxy=gx,gy slockey=tracf verbose=1 \
| sftahwrite \
verbose=1                         \
mode=seq \
output=npr3_tracf.rsf \
>/dev/null

In this example the cmp sorted prestack data, npr3_gathers.rsf,  are 
read by sftahread.  The headers are in the file npr3_gathers_hdr.rsf, 
the headers parameter default.  The headers are merged with the trace 
amplitudes and the tah data sent down the pipe for sftahmakeskey.
sftahmakeskey creates the cdpt header and sftahwrite creates a 4 
dimensional file.

PARAMETERS
strings slocxy=

list of 2 header keys that are the input surface location key
so use to compute the slockey.

string slockey

the name of the output sloc header.

.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I string 
.B slockey
.B =
.R  	The name of the sloc key created by the program.
.TP
.I string 
.B slocxy
.B =
.R  	

     two keys that are the trace headers names of the x,y coordinate 
     to use to identify surface locations and compute the trace header
     value for slockey
.TP
.I int    
.B verbose
.B =1
.R  	

     flag to control amount of print
     0 terse, 1 informative, 2 chatty, 3 debug
.SH SOURCE
.I user/karl/Mtahmakesloc.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
