.TH vpvr3d 1  "APRIL 2023" Madagascar "Madagascar Manuals"
.SH NAME
vpvr3d \- Plot impulse responses in 3 dimensions 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpvr3d > out.rsf > plot.vpl what= start=0. end=360. bottom=-90. top=90. order=n maxlevel=5 coslimit=25. xmin=-100. ymin=-100. zmin=-100. xmax=100. ymax=100. zmax=100. or=n skip=-1 xxmin=-100. yymin=-100. zzmin=-100. xxmax=100. yymax=100. zzmax=100. inc=4 inc2=iinc which=y norm=1. sing=
.SH PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.I float  
.B bottom
.B =-90.
.R  	latitude start
.TP
.I float  
.B coslimit
.B =25.
.R  	aximum deviation in particle motion angle
.TP
.I float  
.B end
.B =360.
.R  	longitude end
.TP
.I int    
.B inc
.B =4
.R  	density of gridding (How many tiles to cover 90 degree of longitude in initial tiling.)
.TP
.I int    
.B inc2
.B =iinc
.R  	tiles bigger than 90 deg / iinc2 in any dimension will be subdivided to fit
.TP
.I int    
.B maxlevel
.B =5
.R  	maximum number of re-subdivisions
.TP
.I float  
.B norm
.B =1.
.R  	amount to divide everything by
.TP
.I bool   
.B or
.B =n
.R  [y/n]	modifier: if or=y ORs instead of ANDS the clips.
.TP
.I bool   
.B order
.B =n
.R  [y/n]	try to swap around the surfaces to make them continuous
.TP
.I string 
.B sing
.B =
.R  	Log file
.TP
.I int    
.B skip
.B =-1
.R  	modifier: skip=-1 don't clip this surface (-1 for none skipped)
     			0 = fastest
     			1 = intermediate
     			2 = slowest
     			3 = red (SH)
     			4 = green (SV)
     			5 = blue (P)
.TP
.I float  
.B start
.B =0.
.R  	longitude start
.TP
.I float  
.B top
.B =90.
.R  	latitude end
.TP
.I ints   
.B what
.B =
.R  	 [3]
.TP
.I bool   
.B which
.B =y
.R  [y/n]	if y, plot impulse response; if n, plot slowness surface
.TP
.I float  
.B xmax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B xmin
.B =-100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B xxmax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B xxmin
.B =-100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ymax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B ymin
.B =-100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B yymax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B yymin
.B =-100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B zmax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B zmin
.B =-100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B zzmax
.B =100.
.R  
.TP
.I float  
.B zzmin
.B =-100.
.R  
.SH SOURCE
.I user/dellinger/Mvr3d.c
.SH VERSION
4.2-git
